src/app/articles/gcloud-auth-wsl/page.mdx, before:

import { ArticleLayout } from '@/components/ArticleLayout'

export const article = {
  author: 'Sam Amanat',
  date: '2025-07-09',
  title: 'Stop Manually Authenticating Google Cloud CLI Every Day in WSL',
  description:
    'A simple alias that solves the daily gcloud authentication headache in WSL environments.',
}

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
}

export default (props) => <ArticleLayout article={article} {...props} />

If you develop in WSL and use Google Cloud CLI, you know the pain. **Every single day** you have to run `gcloud auth login`, wait for it to fail to open a browser, copy a URL, paste it into Windows Chrome, authenticate, and then hope it sticks until tomorrow.

It doesn't.

The problem is that WSL can't directly open browsers, Google's security policies force frequent re-authentication in WSL environments, and the whole process is just *annoying* when you're trying to get work done.

## The Simple Solution

Here's what I added to my `.zshrc` that **completely eliminates** this daily friction:

```bash
# Set browser for gcloud
export BROWSER="/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe"

# One-command authentication
alias gauth='echo "your_password" | xclip -selection clipboard && echo "✅ Password copied to clipboard" && "/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe" --profile-directory="Profile 3" > /dev/null 2>&1 && gcloud auth application-default login > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "🎉 Authentication complete!"'
```

Replace `"your_password"` with your actual WSL password and `"Profile 3"` with your Chrome profile if different.

## What This Does

1. **Copies your password** to clipboard (for any sudo prompts)
2. **Opens Chrome** with the correct profile automatically  
3. **Runs gcloud auth** in the background
4. **Gives you clear feedback** on what's happening

Now instead of the 5-step manual process, I just type `gauth` and it's done in seconds.

## Why This Works Better

The key insight is using `gcloud auth application-default login` instead of regular `gcloud auth login`. This creates **application default credentials** that last longer and work better with WSL's networking limitations.

The browser export ensures gcloud can find Chrome, and specifying a profile means it opens in the right Google account context immediately.

## Requirements

You'll need `xclip` installed for clipboard functionality:

```bash
sudo apt install xclip
```

That's it. No complex setup, no weird workarounds, just a simple alias that **solves the problem** and gets you back to coding.

*Sometimes the simplest solutions are the best ones.*

Commit message:

Clarify that password is for Google account, not WSL

src/app/articles/gcloud-auth-wsl/page.mdx, after:

import { ArticleLayout } from '@/components/ArticleLayout'

export const article = {
  author: 'Sam Amanat',
  date: '2025-07-09',
  title: 'Stop Manually Authenticating Google Cloud CLI Every Day in WSL',
  description:
    'A simple alias that solves the daily gcloud authentication headache in WSL environments.',
}

export const metadata = {
  title: article.title,
  description: article.description,
}

export default (props) => <ArticleLayout article={article} {...props} />

If you develop in WSL and use Google Cloud CLI, you know the pain. **Every single day** you have to run `gcloud auth login`, wait for it to fail to open a browser, copy a URL, paste it into Windows Chrome, authenticate, and then hope it sticks until tomorrow.

It doesn't.

The problem is that WSL can't directly open browsers, Google's security policies force frequent re-authentication in WSL environments, and the whole process is just *annoying* when you're trying to get work done.

## The Simple Solution

Here's what I added to my `.zshrc` that **completely eliminates** this daily friction:

```bash
# Set browser for gcloud
export BROWSER="/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe"

# One-command authentication
alias gauth='echo "your_password" | xclip -selection clipboard && echo "✅ Password copied to clipboard" && "/mnt/c/Program Files/Google/Chrome/Application/chrome.exe" --profile-directory="Profile 3" > /dev/null 2>&1 && gcloud auth application-default login > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "🎉 Authentication complete!"'
```

Replace `"your_password"` with your actual Google account password and `"Profile 3"` with your Chrome profile if different.

## What This Does

1. **Copies your Google password** to clipboard (for browser authentication)
2. **Opens Chrome** with the correct profile automatically  
3. **Runs gcloud auth** in the background
4. **Gives you clear feedback** on what's happening

Now instead of the 5-step manual process, I just type `gauth` and it's done in seconds.

## Why This Works Better

The key insight is using `gcloud auth application-default login` instead of regular `gcloud auth login`. This creates **application default credentials** that last longer and work better with WSL's networking limitations.

The browser export ensures gcloud can find Chrome, and specifying a profile means it opens in the right Google account context immediately.

## Requirements

You'll need `xclip` installed for clipboard functionality:

```bash
sudo apt install xclip
```

That's it. No complex setup, no weird workarounds, just a simple alias that **solves the problem** and gets you back to coding.

*Sometimes the simplest solutions are the best ones.*
